but fast these days solid wood desks are
something of a luxury our desks are more
likely to be made of pressed wood such
as chipboard an inexpensive alternative
made from timber byproducts the mill
leftovers provide the raw material for
chipboard
the process starts with truckloads of
sawdust the next ingredients are wood
shavings and wood chips the chips and
shavings are fed into a large mill that
works like a giant food processor
chopping them up into little bits when
the milling is done the particles are
less than not 0.7 millimeters thick
to take out any excess moisture the
particles are put into giant dryers for
25 minutes
whose combustion chambers are fueled by
leftover dust from the chopping milk
from here we'll send the dried-out
particles to a screening machine which
will separate them by size piece is too
big effect through the mill again larger
particles go into the rougher core layer
of the chipboard
smaller pieces into the smoother surface
layer meanwhile resin water wax and
chemical hardness are mixed to create
glue machines mix that glue with the
particles then push out a long
continuous matte
a cold compressor forces the air out of
the mat then a hot press activates the
glue and forces it all together
next a saw cuts the continuous mat into
large sheets called master boards
they're still hot from the hot press so
they're put aside to cool for about half
an hour once the master boards are cool
they're sanded then a stacking machine
piles them about 80 sheets high
a soul then cuts them into smaller more
manageable sizes to be sent off for
construction at the furniture factory
ever is to laminate the panels with a
decorative covering first a spreader
covers the board surface with glue then
another machine sticks on a one and a
half metre strip of decorative paper
fortified with resin varnish and other
chemicals this covering comes in many
different colors and designs from solids
to imitation granite or wood a blade
cuts the paper between each board then a
machine stacks the boards to prepare
them for cutting the saw cuts through
six to eight boards at a time depending
on their thickness
the next step is to cover the edges of
the board a strip made of PVC plastic is
glued then trimmed for a neat finish
next they prepare the pieces for
assembly
a multiple head drill makes screw holes
in the panel's
meanwhile the screws nuts and bolts
needed for assembly our bag there's a
separate bin for each screw nut bolt and
connector the machines count out the
exact number required for each piece of
furniture then the hardware's
automatically bagged and weighed to make
sure nothing's missing every so often a
worker assembles a sample to make sure
everything fits together properly if it
does production continues and they can
proceed to packaging
they put together the boards for each
piece of furniture at the hardware bag
and instruction booklet then seal
everything in plastic film it may not be
a mahogany masterpiece but it does the
job